***Please view this in Raw Mode *** (I will fix the code mode soon)

Students feel comfortable when they apply rote learning to their education. The Socratic method is not valued in our society because it does not reap instant gratification to the learner and pander to state standards in public institutions. We are socialized to appreciate rote learning in our early education. For instance, we are taught to memorize addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division as separate operations of mathematics. Yet, in fact, students only learn in college-level courses that subtraction is the addition of negative numbers, multiplication is the repeated addition (at least for integers). I recall that my intermediate algebra teacher in high school never introduced concepts without first assigning us groups and providing us a warm-up that evoked nostalgic due to resemblance to childhood toys and activities. For example, when he taught us how to complete the square, he provided our groups with algebra tiles where we had to figure out how many tiles we needed to complete the incomplete square. Said warm-up provided us with the intuition to learn to take half of the coefficient of the x-term and square it to get the missing term needed to complete the quadratic. This approach was more beneficial than simply learning how to solve quadratic equations simply in algebraic notation in terms of a,b, and c. Therefore, the Socratic method of the course can make some students feel as if we were not learning anything or that we are treading unknown waters with no bearings of reaching an objective. The Socratic method is refreshing, however, because it allows students to wake some regions of the brain from a deep sleep and learn to actively steer their education toward an answer to a question that the instructor provides. 

Some of the feedback and concerns of students in Statistics in 157 reflect that students are self-conscious about ambiguity and the assumed failure attached to it. It's almost as if there were a stigma attached to novel experiences in learning methods. Francis Bacon, whom my favorite English teacher called the father of modern science, identified this error in thinking as the Idol of the Cave. Bacon identified four barriers to critical thinking: the Idols of the Tribe, the Cave, the Marketplace, and the Theater. The chief idol in the course seems to be that of the cave. This idol models the mind as molded by environment, conditioning, and education. The mind. Students get attached to their caves, forgetting that they are free to step out into the light (scientifically speaking, that the mind is plastic, i.e., experience changes the structure of neurons and therefore function of the individual - for better or for worst). Contrary to the University of California's motto, "Let There Be Light", students find solace in their caves, and thus this course can rattle the comfort of some students, and thus they feel compelled to try to revert to their dark caves. For example, some were hesitant to try using the IPython Notebook and wanted to continue using R. R is a good statistical software, but students did not factor in the long-term benefits of learning the Python language: career benefits, ability to program succinctly, and to transition to other languages. I was guilty of this idol when I avoided the for loop as if it were the plague, until I realized that my experiences coding would be more efficient if I took the time to practice learning for loops than taking time to navigate methods to avoid their use. The dissonance some students experience post-college, that their academic learning does not apply to the "real world", only exists because those subsets fail to extract the lessons one will appreciate long-term from failure, confusion, challenges, and novel approaches to solutions. I am not suggesting that students seek out the aforementioned, but I do advise that we learn to become resilient when we encounter them via acknowledging that we have encountered them, asking questions, reaching out resources, and realizing that these encounters help us become more flexible beyond the confines of academia. If we do not learn from them, we remain as stiff and rigid as the gardens of Louis XIV.  

I also realized how powerful metaphor serves to help us construct knowledge. This past Thursday, when I asked Kristina how I could constructively contribute to the class after having missed two week's worth of class, not only did she offer various solutions to the problem, but she also illustrated the role of the presenter in a metaphor that clarified all the assumptions I had about the role. She said that the data should travel in a stream from the abstract and back down to Earth. The data curators take what seems to be incomprehensible and unrelated data and convert them a form that the analyzers can employ. From the skies of the curator gods, a shower of data leaks into the halls of Soda Hall where the analyzers are able to make relationships and inferences about the data. However the data remain blurry to a general population, so the analyzers provide their conclusions to the visualizers. The visualizers take the polished inferences from the data and create graphics that will pander to one our best modalities for learning - vision. Finally, the visualizers will provide their graphics to the presenters, and the presenters will help the data land back down to Earth, i.e., a research publication, scholars in different fields, media publications, and the general public. However, the presenters are not merely puppets for the aggregate work of the curators, the analyzers, and visualizers. Their role is also to help the data transition as smoothly as possible along the chain. Without the presenters helping the data flow back down to Earth, the only worthwhile presentation Statistics 157 could provide is a rendition of David Bowie's "Space Oddity", symbolizing the alienation the data experiences as a result in faulty communication. Thus, metaphors are not strictly tools restricted to the poet, for even the famous statistician R.A. Fisher employed a metaphor to stress the importance of statistics in experimental design: “To consult the statistician after an experiment is finished is often merely to ask him to conduct a post mortem examination. He can perhaps say what the experiment died of."

My last name, Barrera, is Spanish for barrier. I thus feel a calling to help break barries that reduce our potential to optimize our growth and the quality of life.
