Reflections
===========

Weekly Reflection: Week of September 2-6
I found the first week of course to be bittersweet. On one hand, the hype surrounding the course made this course

I believe that the core of my frustration stems from the technical issues that arose when I attempted to follow through on the class
participation and homework assignments. I have a Mac OS X, Version 10.6.8, on my MacBook. Therefore, some of the programs
Professor Culich assigned to download were not compatible with said version on my laptop or either operated at a glacial 
pace once installed. A personal hinderance I had to hurdle was that of my computer's processing speed: I had to relinquish some software
from my laptop to allocate memory to programs that Professor Culich assigned us to download. For example, I had to delete several video game
emulators to create memory for Ubuntu. I did not initially understand the jargon Github uses until I read a guide published
by assistant professor Victoria Stodden at Colombia University, who strongly argues for collaborative data science in fields
of research, and associates with Columbia University Institute for Data Sciences and Engineering. Her guide clarified Github, 
and I think I will be referring to her website to learn more HTML and to learn LaTeX. 

I remain optimistic that the course will reach its potential once the class gets its bearings with the fundamental programs
such as Github, IRC, and Ubuntu. Albeit I would prefer to employ Linux through the Statistics Department's Statistics Computing
Facilities ssh, I will give Ubuntu time to hopefully grow on me via the virtual machine. I furthermore expect that the #stat157
chat room will serve to help communicate roadblocks, create a community for Mac users, and discuss alternatives to methods and programs
that create complacency. The two biggest barries I believe are language and technical difficulties. 

Improvements: Epistemologically, students would benefit more if they knew 1) the advantages of downloading
certain programs and 2) using X in lieu of Y beforehand instead of ex post facto. 
